README.md, before:

# myGame

[link](https://supabase-game.vercel.app/)

## Next steps

- [X] Create Race etc. schemas and get form options from there
- [ ] Update the UI with Tailwind components or ShadcnUI

## Future work

- [ ] Upload images to Supabase (see **Setting Up the Supabase Client** & **Uploading an Image File to a Supabase
  Storage Bucket** [here](https://www.makeuseof.com/next-js-upload-images-supabase-storage-bucket/)).
- [ ] Set up authentication (see how T3 Turbo Supabase repo implements auth).
- [ ] Set
  up [Supabase database backups](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/niyrisfdjxcwffpdpzqp/database/backups/scheduled) (
  on Pro plan only) or figure out the `pg dump` manual SQL command thing`.

## How I built this

![diagram](https://github.com/nadiaenh/supabase-game/blob/main/public/components_diagram.png)

### App

Created with [create-t3-app](https://create.t3.gg/) and deployed
using [Vercel with T3](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/vercel).

**Commands:**  
`npm run dev` will start the server locally.  
`git push origin main` will deploy to Vercel.

### Frontend

Uses [Tailwind CSS with Next.js](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs) and [zod](https://zod.dev/) to validate
inputs.

**File structure:**

- `./public` contains all the static files for the project, e.g. images.
- `./src/pages/` contains the website pages - each `.tsx` file becomes a route in the App.
- `./src/styles/` contains the CSS stylesheets.
- `./src/components/` should contain the React UI components.

### Backend

Uses [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and [tRPC](https://trpc.io/).

**File structure:**

- `./src/env.mjs` defines how to load the environment variables.
- `./src/server/api/`
    - `trpc.ts` initilaizes tRPC and lets you create routers and procedures.
    - `root.ts` imports and combines all the different routers into the main App router.
    - `db.ts` creates and exports the Prisma client so it can be used in the App.
    - `routers/` has files (routers) where you can define the functions that can be used for each router.

**Commands:**  
`npm run dev` to start the server locally.

### Database

Uses [Prisma with Supabase](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/database/supabase).

**File structure:**  
`./prisma/schema.prisma` contains all the database schemas.  
`./prisma/seed.ts` contains the data to populate the tables with.

**Commands:**  
Environment variables and schemas need to be set up properly before starting to run commands.

`npx prisma studio` to edit data in a nice UI.  
`npm run db` whenever I update database schema.  
`npx prisma db seed` to populate the tables with data from `./prisma/seed.ts` -- **this will delete all rows currently
in all tables!!**

Commit message:

form now logs data properly on submit

README.md, after:

# myGame

[link](https://supabase-game.vercel.app/)

## Next steps

- [X] Create Race etc. schemas and get form options from there
- [X] Update the UI with Tailwind components or ShadcnUI
- [X] Make SelectRace actually update the state - see how test.tsx implements SubmitButton
- [ ] Make SubmitForm open a popup to create a character

## Future work

- [ ] Upload images to Supabase (see **Setting Up the Supabase Client** & **Uploading an Image File to a Supabase
  Storage Bucket** [here](https://www.makeuseof.com/next-js-upload-images-supabase-storage-bucket/)).
- [ ] Set up authentication (see how T3 Turbo Supabase repo implements auth).
- [ ] Set
  up [Supabase database backups](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/niyrisfdjxcwffpdpzqp/database/backups/scheduled) (
  on Pro plan only) or figure out the `pg dump` manual SQL command thing`.

## How I built this

![diagram](https://github.com/nadiaenh/supabase-game/blob/main/public/components_diagram.png)

### App

Created with [create-t3-app](https://create.t3.gg/) and deployed
using [Vercel with T3](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/vercel).

**Commands:**  
`npm run dev` will start the server locally.  
`git push origin main` will deploy to Vercel.

### Frontend

Uses [Tailwind CSS with Next.js](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs) and [zod](https://zod.dev/) to validate
inputs.

**File structure:**

- `./public` contains all the static files for the project, e.g. images.
- `./src/pages/` contains the website pages - each `.tsx` file becomes a route in the App.
- `./src/styles/` contains the CSS stylesheets.
- `./src/components/` should contain the React UI components.

### Backend

Uses [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and [tRPC](https://trpc.io/).

**File structure:**

- `./src/env.mjs` defines how to load the environment variables.
- `./src/server/api/`
    - `trpc.ts` initilaizes tRPC and lets you create routers and procedures.
    - `root.ts` imports and combines all the different routers into the main App router.
    - `db.ts` creates and exports the Prisma client so it can be used in the App.
    - `routers/` has files (routers) where you can define the functions that can be used for each router.

**Commands:**  
`npm run dev` to start the server locally.

### Database

Uses [Prisma with Supabase](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/database/supabase).

**File structure:**  
`./prisma/schema.prisma` contains all the database schemas.  
`./prisma/seed.ts` contains the data to populate the tables with.

**Commands:**  
Environment variables and schemas need to be set up properly before starting to run commands.

`npx prisma studio` to edit data in a nice UI.  
`npm run db` whenever I update database schema.  
`npx prisma db seed` to populate the tables with data from `./prisma/seed.ts` -- **this will delete all rows currently
in all tables!!**
